Notes on the 1983 paper "Program Design in the UNIX Environment" by Rob Pike
and Brian W. Kernighan

ABSTRACT

The "software tools" approach has since been incorporated into a broader scope
of operating system and program design called the "Unix Philosophy."

I. INTRODUCTION

"The UNIX operating system... is likely to be the standard operating system
for microcomputers and some mainframes in the coming years."

In 1983 when this paper was written, most users of computers were programmers,
scientists, engineers, or technical business users, all of which groups were
considered to be capable of adapting to the Unix user interface.

Unix never became a standard operating system for either microcomputers or
mainframes, but in the 1980s and 1990s it was ported to the dominant IBM PC
architecture and some mainframes.  Unix, including Unix-like operating systems
such as Linux, did become the most widely ported operating system in history
and the most widely deployed after after the introduction of smartphones in the
2000s.  Howver, smartphones clearly do not follow the program design and user
interface standards of 1983 Unix.

It may be noted that for a brief time in the 1980s, before AT&T made Unix a
commercial product, Microsoft planned for Unix (as Xenix) to become their own
standard operating system product that would eventually supplant MS-DOS on
personal computers.  The introduction of Windows 3.0 in 1990--completely
dissimilar to Unix in its design philosophy--and its rapid rise to a monopoly
position in the market ended whatever chance the Unix program design paradigm
might have had to play a dominant role in desktop computing.

"These led in turn to new programming languages and interesting software for
applications like program development, document preparation, and circuit
design."

Examples include diff for source code control systems like SCCS, yacc for
designing computer programming languages including at least one for circuit
design, and regular expression support in the ed editor and its successors for
document preparation.

"... the software was easy to customize for particular applications or merely
to support a view of the world different from the original."

Shells are a good example of this point.  New shells such as csh and ksh
proliferated to provide users an alternative interface to the system.
Menu-driven interfaces for non-technical users were also popular products for
back-end Unix business systems in the 1980s.

II. AN EXAMPLE: CAT

"... some mail-reading programs and text editors, for example, are large
self-contained "subsystems" that provide their own complete environments"

The "mail" command changed from being a simple mail-browsing command in 7th
Edition UNIX to being a self-contained "mail processing subsystem" in Berkeley
UNIX.

III. CAT -v

The command "cat  cat filelist" is misprinted--it is missing the backquote
operators.  The command should read:

cat `cat filelist`

"... the addition of a single optional argument -u, which forced cat to
unbuffer its output"

Buffered output could be problematic on a terminal, causing delays in output
display until, for example, a carriage return or Ctrl-D (read as EOF) had been
entered manually.

"It's easy to dispose of (Berkeley) -s, -n, and -b: all of these jobs are
readily done with existing tools like sed and awk."

An example is given in the paper for numbering lines with awk.

Stripping multiple blank lines to a single instance (cat -s) can be done
instead with:

sed '/^$/N;/^\n$/D'

or

awk '/^$/ {if (++n == 1) print; next}; {n = 0; print}'

Numbering only nonblank lines (cat -nb) can be done with:

awk '/./ {print ++n "\t" $0; next} {print}'

"The preferred approach in this case is a separate program that deals
with nonprintable characters. We called ours vis...."

Another program that deals with nonprintable characters is od, which displays
the unambiguous numeric encoding values for any binary data, one character at a
time.  However, od's output format does not make it ideal for quick human
reading of text files.

IV. FAST TERMINAL LINES

"The option -1 can be used to get the old single-column behavior."

Changing the default behavior of a command and requiring an option to be passed
to restore the original behavior breaks backward compatibility in an attempt to
be "user friendly."  Surprising changes to default behaviors are rarely
considered "friendly" by experienced users.

The pr command shown:

pr -$0 -t -l 1 $*

prints its input word list in row-first order rather than the column-first
order that Berkeley ls uses.  This is due to pr being called with the "-l 1"
option, forcing each line to be columnated individually.  In order for the pr
command to columnate exactly as Berkeley ls does, it would need to have an
unlimited page length (thus allowing each column to have unlimited length) and
be able to determine the optimal number of columns to use for the most compact
fit (fewest pages required).

"If a more general service is desired, such as automatically selecting the
number of columns for optimal compaction, a C program is probably required"

In fact, such a program was later written in C, called "columns," and bundled
with the GNU Autogen package.  The output of ls piped to the "columns" command
is able to replicate the columnated output of Berkeley ls almost exactly, as in
this example:

columns --by-columns -W 80 --spread=5

with varying values of "spread" required to match varying column spacing values
in different implementations of ls.  The only difference in output format
between "columns" and Berkeley ls is that the "columns" command strips trailing
white space from each input word.  This is unlikely to be a problem in real
usage since it is exceedingly rare for any filename to end in whitespace.

"A potentially simpler solution is to let the terminal or terminal interface do
the work, with controlled scrolling, editing and retransmission of visible
text, and review of what has gone before."

The GNU project provides a command line editing library (readline) and a
command line history library to generalize these functions.  No recompilation
of programs that use these libraries is necessary when the libary
implementations change if the programs are dynamically linked.

For a visual history of command input and command output, scrolling virtual
terminal programs on modern graphic displays can be used, eliminating the need
for "smart" hardware terminals like the Blit to provide this function.

V. CONCLUSIONS

"... the programs are orthogonal, spanning the space of jobs to be done
(although with a fair amount of overlap for reasons of history, convenience, or
efficiency)."

Examples of command functionality overlap include:

As described in the paper, the addition of flags to cat as a convenience to
avoid having to create, maintain, and migrate custom "one-liner" scripts that
use text transformation tools like sed and awk and that (less efficiently)
require pipelines to employ.

The addition of the -u flag to the sort command, which is redundant with the
uniq command but more convenient and efficient for the same reasons as the use
of the new flags in cat.

The expr comamnd, which can evaluate arithmetic expressions like bc does, but
in a way that is more syntactically clean in shell scripts and thus more
convenient for non-interactive use.  For historical reasons, bc focuses on
mathematical calculations and supports user-defined functions; expr was
designed to have broader but shallower scope--supporting string manipulation
but not including an interactive "desk calculator" mode, for example.

There are many other examples of functionality overlap in Unix text processing
tools because contributions to Unix were made simultaneously from many sources
and each text processing tool was made for a different primary purpose (such as
ed for interactive editing, sed for stream editing, and awk for fully
programmable text manipulation).  As noted in the paper, regular expressions
are pervasive in Unix, and thus many text processing tools can, when invoked
appropriately, perform the same regular expression matching and generate the
same outputs.

"Merely adding features does not make it easier for users to do things--it just
makes the manual thicker."

One reason why adding features does not necessarily result in greater ease of
use is that similar functionality added to different commands may have
different syntax or different assumptions and limitations.  Overlapping
functionality can also perplex less experienced users who are not sure which
tool is fundamentally best suited for a given use case.
