The first eight integer or pointer arguments to a function are passed in
registers x0-x7.  Additional arguments if needed are pushed on the stack in
reverse order.  Integer results are returned in register x0.

Floating point arguments are passed in the floating point registers
s0-31 (single precision), d0-d31 (double precision), or q0-q31 (quad
precision).  Unlike in ARM32, each larger register (e.g. d0) contains only one
register of a given smaller size (e.g. s0), not two or more.  Thus, d0 contains
s0, d1 contains s1, q0 contains d0 and s0 (but not d1 or s1), etc.  Floating
point results are returned in s0 (single precision), d0 (double precision), or
q0 (quad precision).  Note that q0-q31 are sometimes referred to as v0-v31.

If arguments to printf are mixed (e.g. a format string followed by a mix of
integer and floating point arguments), the arguments will be passed in
sequential registers of the appropriate type.  For example, if printf is called
with an appropriate format string (whose address will be in x0) followed by a
float, int, and double, the latter three arguments will be passed in registers
d0 (after conversion from s0), w1 (since x0 which contains w0 was already used
for the format string), and d1, respectively.

If a structure is passed as a function argument, its elements are stored on the
caller's stack and x0 is loaded with the address of the first element of the
structure (which is not necessarily at the top of the caller's stack frame even
if there are no other arguments passed on the stack).  Both integral and
floating point elements of the structure are passed using this convention.

Aggregates (structures and unions) as return values are a special case.  If the
elements of the aggregate total 16 bytes or less, they are returned in
registers x0 and (if required) x1.  Otherwise, the caller function allocates
the memory for the aggregate in its own stack frame and passes a pointer to the
aggregate in x8.  The callee function then writes the return value into the
memory to which x8 points.  The callee is not required to pass the address of
the returned aggregate back in register x8, although it may do so in x0.
