Notes on the paper "A Protocol for Packet Network Intercommunication" by Vinton
G. Cerf and Robert E. Kahn, IEEE Trans on Comms, Vol Com-22, No 5 May 1974

The subject of the paper is development of a common packet-switching network
protocol for communication between disparate connected computer networks, each
of which may each use its own internal protocols to communicate between hosts.
The inter-networking protocol described in this paper facilitates notional
end-to-end connections for transmitting data packets through a potentially
unreliable network of store-and-forward packet switches.  Detailed strategies
for routing packets through the network are beyond the scope of the paper.  The
nascent protocol introduced in this paper eventually led to the formal
specifications of the TCP and IP protocols.

Routing decisions within the packet switching network are made according to the
destination host, not the source host.

Packet switching networks can differ in methods of addressing, packet sizes,
timing requirements, packet error detection and recovery, and hardware fault
management.  For these reasons, transmitting packets between dissimilar
networks is a major challenge.  Ideally, packet switching networks should be as
similar as possible to simplify the interfaces between them (called gateways).
The gateway devices themselves need not (and should not) know about host and
process-specific data delivery protocols, only about arranging for data flow
between network boundaries.  There is therefore a requirement for hosts and
processes to have compatible protocols at the transmission endpoints.

Accounting must be done along the entire network route so that the end user can
be charged for the use of the different intervening networks' resources.

Each network may present itself as a native host on a network to which it is
connected, so that dissimilar networks can recognize each other and so that
communication between two networks is possible using each network's own
conventions.  Packet transfer between network boundary interfaces (gateways)
presenting themselves as hosts does not require the full host and process
protocol complexity that is ultimately needed for successful data delivery and
interpretation between communication endpoints (actual hosts).

THE GATEWAY NOTION

The "unusual effect" in accounting described in the example given means that
after fragmentation, some networks in the path to the destination that have
large packet sizes may need to transmit more (already fragmented) packets than
would have been required without fragmentation, since defragmentation is
assumed not to occur en route.  While this situation is not optimal from a cost
standpoint due to some packet capacity being wasted in the downstream network
with larger packets, an increase in packet size in an upstream network will not
exacerbate this problem and will therefore not *increase* cost.  This is
because fragmentation will not result in more packets being sent downstream
than previously for a given aggregate data transfer.

In fact, costs to users may decrease when network packet size increases since
fewer packets will be needed (on average) to transmit a given amount of data
through the networks with expanded packet sizes, and the authors explicitly
assume that the cost per packet will not increase whenever packet size
increases.  Moreover, network providers with smaller packet sizes have an
incentive to increase packet sizes in their networks since fewer packets means
less overhead (such as for packet headers) and thus more efficient utilization
of transmission equipment.

The goal should be to optimize packet sizes to minimize overall fragmentation
(using packet sizes that are larger, or at least no smaller than their those of
their neighbor networks) without making packet sizes so large that their
individual capacity is significantly underutilized.
